>> Kent C. Dodds: Now we're going to
talk about the Jest Testing Framework,
just a little bit,
I'll give you a brief intro to it.
So that as we go through some exercises,
you know what assertions
are available to you and things.
And so,
if you go into the other directory,
just expect this test directory
with the double underscores,
and then the expect assertion is js.file.
Then you can take a look at these.
And I'm gonna go ahead and run a script.
You can run this if you want to.
Let me see, it's, yeah,
NPM run test:expect.
You'll wanna do this
in the root directory.
Yeah, you don't have to run
this if you don't want to,
you're not gonna be changing any files.
And then we'll explore
this a little bit later.
But press A to run all those tests.
Like I said, you're not really
gonna be making any changes there.
So this is just a quick intro to Jest so
you're familiar with what
assertions are available.
So you have this 2B assertion.
You wrote this, so
you know what this is all about.
It's similar to triple equals,
so you can expect one to be one,
you can expect true to be true.
And then on any of these assertions you
can negate the assertion by adding a not
in front of it.
So expect this object not
to be this other object.
And this is actually a pretty
critical point, so expect is using
something similar to triple equals,
it's actually object dot is.
But two objects even though
they may look the same and
they have all the same properties,
they're not actually equal.
And so
keep that in mind when you're using toBe,
we want to use this to compare
references to the same object.
Or the like primitive values,
like a one and true or a string.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, and
then we have two equal.
So if you do have two objects that look
similar to each other, or that look
the same but not in the same reference
this is where two equal comes in handy.
It's similar to low dash is equal
if you're familiar with that.
So the subject in our
actual here are visually
identical references to
totally different objects.
We also have this array as well and
oops, and
these two things are also
visually identical.
And so
both of these will pass a toEqual check.
>> Kent C. Dodds: So
we'll use that one a fair amount.
Too match object is similar to toEqual,
Except it will do a sub object match.
So so long as the subject
has at least the things
that the actual has as the expected.
That should be expected.
Anyway, so long as this has at least
all the same properties as this one,
then that will pass the assertion.
So to match object is handy.
If we added, like,
a f bar then that will fail.
And actually this is one of the nice
things about Jest assertions,
is they'll say hey, I expected it, and now
to match this and here's the difference.
So that error message is really nice.
Thank you, Jest, cool.
>> Kent C. Dodds: So then we have,
we move on to mock functions.
If you want a fullest of assertions,
there's a link at the top
of this file here.
Find the fullest of assertions here,
so you can check out.
It's not ginormous but
it is significant in link.
So you probably just keep that
open to see the docs as you're
working through things,
can be pretty handy.
Okay, so we're gonna talk about
mock in a little bit later.
But they are simply function that
keep track of how they are called,
and what they are called with.
And so we can create these mock
functions with Jest function API,
and then when it is called,
we can use this assertion to
times with the number of times
that it's supposed to be called.
And then two have been called with is
another insertion, we're calling it
abc and then this object so we can assert
that, that 's what it was called with.
And yeah, each argument uses toBe and
that's why we're able to use
a totally different reference or
a totally different object here.
There's also to be greater than,
to be falsey or truthy,
you may use that in some places
in the workshop exercises.
And then this is a pretty handy
feature of Jest as while,
I think this is second to
last thing I wanna show.
For toEqual to match object and
to have been called with,
you can have them match a schema.
I think Jest doc referred to this as
asymmetrical matches, which I'm not sure
I understand what that means, but
in any case we have this birthday object.
And then we can define that as kind
of this schema object, so the day,
I don't care what the day is,
it just needs to be a number, and
I don't care what the month is, it just
needs to be a number, and the year.
And then the display property, or
the meta needs to be an object, and
that object should have a display property
that is a string that contains 1988.
That's the only thing I care
about in this test, for example.
And there's also array containing, object
containing, a whole bunch of others.
They're all documented right here.
And so then you can use
toEqual to match objects, or
if it's a mock function
to have been called with.
So this can be really handy, especially
if we're dealing with generated data or
something like that.
When you say I don't really care
what the value is specifically,
it needs to be of this type or
it needs to be a string continuing this.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, then one last
thing on this mock functions thing,
and then we'll move on to
the writing unit test.
So a mock function has
a property called mock, and
that has some information
about that mock function.
One of those pieces of
information is calls property.
And that's an array of every
single time it was called,
that's array of the arguments for
every time it was called.
So here this time was called
one time with these arguments.
And so this array on first call is
gonna be an array of these arguments.
And then if it was called a second time,
then, or sorry,
this is the second argument.
So we've got the first argument,
second argument, and
we can make assertions on those.
So sometimes if you need a much more
specific assertion on mock functions then
you can pull out those calls yourself.
So you may, this might be a pretty
good thing to reference later on in
the workshop when we start getting
into some of these assertions.
Later on we'll cover mock functions
inspires in greater depth.
And then also may be get to use
snapshots a little bit later.
And we'll talk about those later.